							LESSON PLAN  (50 min)

Docente:		Bruce D. Marron
Ciclo: 			25-2
Materia: 		Terminología Especializada en Mercadotécnica y Diseño
Curso:			IT0942
Licenciatura: 	Interpretación y Traducción
Horario:		Miércoles 18:00 – 21:00
Grupo:			9A




####
HW_03.1	[Due: 5 Feb 2025]
Do your values affect your product choices? Are there product messages "that speak to you"? In a one-page+ paper reflect on your personal values and their relation to your purchasing choices. Translate the paper into Spanish / English. The standard requirements apply.

#######
Today
#######

---- Open 

“Marketing is about values. It’s a complicated and noisy world, and we’re not going to get a chance to get people to remember much about us. No company is. So we have to be really clear about what we want them to know about us.” 
				– Steve Jobs


---- Content 

	
	HW_01.1	[Due: 23 Jan 2025] summary Ch.1, "Marketing: A Critical Textbook (pp. 1-6).	
		<== wrong date should've been 22 Jan
	HW_01.2 [Due: 23 Jan 2025] summary Konrod's,"Language Research in Marketing" (pp. 4-8)	
		<== wrong date should've been 22 Jan
	HW_02.1	[Due today: 29 January 2025] summary/critique Ch.3 "Marketing:A Critical Textbook"
	HW_03.1	[Due: 5 Feb 2025] values and your product choices

NB. HW_03 will be last HW on 1st partial. Next week study guide.


Share Out
	HW_01.1 	Ch.1, "Marketing: A Critical Textbook (pp. 1-6)
	
	HW_01.2 	Konrod's,"Language Research in Marketing" (pp. 4-8)

	HW_02.1 	Ch.3 '"Marketing: A Critical Textbook"
				i) summarizes section 3.1, and critiques the other two sections

Notes
	Margins
	Text; double space
	Header; single space
	Organization titles
		centred; bold; caps first words
			L; underlined; caps first words
	Paragraph options
		Indent
		Space
	Widows/Orphans





Concept of Value and Ideology

(p 14, Ellis et al.)
Marketing comprises a set of concepts and practices, as well as an ideology that has a very particular history and is rooted in very particular cultural contexts – those of the USA and Western Europe, and associated values of individualism, rationalism, and a belief in science and progress.

(p 99, Ellis et al.)
To understand marketing in ideological terms, we need to put aside a functional or task-orientated perspective for a moment. Instead, try to think about marketing as a collection of coherent, and relatively powerful and persuasive ideas which above all else affirm a set of values about how organisations and individuals should conduct themselves, as well as what they can expect as right and proper conduct from others.


(p. 111 Ellis et al.)
So, rather than investing in true product and service innovations firms are drawn into a
cycle in which they end up providing products that are very similar to the competitors
offerings, but with endless minor variations and superficial differences, which are
developed for the purposes of marketing and promotion. Rather than being empowered
and having their needs met, consumers end up with having to make relatively arbitrary
choices in a marketplace of virtually identical products and services. Marketing success
becomes increasingly reliant on effective advertising and sales efforts rather than
delivering genuine consumer value.



(p 112-114 Kosler&Armstrong_Principles-of-Marketing)
Cultural Core Values
People in a given society hold many beliefs and values.... core beliefs and values have a
high degree of persistence....most Americans believe in individual freedom, hard
work, getting married, and achievement and success....Core beliefs and values are passed on from parents to children and are reinforced by schools, businesses, religious institutions, and government.....Secondary beliefs and values are more open to change. Believing in marriage is a core belief; believing that people should get married early in life is a secondary belief.....Marketers have some chance of changing secondary values but little chance of changing core values.


Values: People’s Views of Themselves
People use products, brands, and services as a means of self-expression, and they buy products and services that match their views of themselves.


Value: People’s Views of Organizations
The past two decades have seen a sharp decrease in confidence in and loyalty toward America’s business and political organizations and institutions....overall decline in organizational loyalty; cynicism; distrust; major corporate scandals, rounds of layoffs the financial meltdown triggered by Wall Street bankers’ greed.....organizations need to find new ways to win consumer and employee confidence

People’s Views of Society
patriots defend it, reformers want to change it, and malcontents want to leave it....orientation to society influences consumption patterns and attitudes toward the marketplace....Flag-waving promotions are well-received but tricky .... can be viewed as corny or as token attempts to cash in on the nation’s emotions.

People’s Views of Nature. 
attitudes toward the natural world — some feel ruled by it, others feel in harmony with it, and still others seek to master it.....A long-term trend has been people’s growing mastery over nature through technology and the belief that nature is bountiful.....More recently, however, people have recognized that nature is finite and fragile; it can be destroyed or spoiled by human activities.

People’s Views of the Universe. 
people vary in their beliefs about the origins of the universe and their place in it.
people are dropping out of organized religion ... doesn’t mean that they are abandoning their faith...renewed interest in spirituality, perhaps as a part of a broader search for a new inner purpose....moving away from materialism and dog-eat-dog ambition to seek more permanent values—family, community, earth, faith—and a more certain grasp of right and wrong.


Start planning your product's advertising campaign!!!!



--- Work time
