							LESSON PLAN  (200 min)

Docente:		Bruce D. Marron
Ciclo: 			25-2
Materia: 		Taller de Traducción Ingeniería y Adelantos Tecnológicos
Curso:			IT0629 
Licenciatura: 	Interpretación y  Traducción
Horario:		Martes 15:00 – 19:00; Jueves 19:00 – 21:00
Grupo:			6A


####
HW_02
Due: 28 Jan 2025
####
--- HW_02.1
	Read Chap. III The Nature of Normal Science in Thomas Kuhn's, "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions". Extract  3-5 main points from the text. Be prepared to share these in class.
	

--- HW_02.2
	Translate B. Remarks On The Nature of Normal Science from An Overview Of Thomas Kuhn's, "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions" into Spanish. Standard format requirements apply.


#######
Today
#######

---- Open

“Science can amuse and fascinate us all, but it is engineering that changes the world.”
	—Isaac Asimov, American writer, professor of biochemistry


---- Content

Socratic Seminar after silent reading
	Jeremy Ramsden, "The Differences Between Engineering and Science"


	General perception 	1)“industry, science and technology create jobs and create wealth”

						
	Three states 	1) academic science and scientists
						“knowledge obtained by observation, by experiment and by subsequent deduction ... the object of the 
						scientist is the determination of general laws and the deduction of principles from the effects which are 
						observed”.	<== lacks of empirical support "how improbable quantitative discovery by quantitative 
						measurement is.”
						
						independent mission to uncover hidden truths about nature and the scientists are guided by their 
						intuition about what is important to investigate, which may 
						only be slightly influenced by practical human needs
						
						the scientist has an easier task — he or she is only dealing with the absolute arbiter of nature;
						All that is required of him is unimpeachable integrity,
						
					2) engineers 
						“the science of the industrial arts”, applies scientific principles and imagination to the creation of 
						useful products required by society.
						
						the engineer, when confronted by problems, for which existing knowledge is inadequate, will not wait for the 
						scientist but will forge ahead, using heuristic methods to establish a bridgehead in unknown 
						territory, achieving what the scientists may have deemed to be “impossible”
						
						the engineer himself expands knowledge as necessary when what he needs has not been made available by the 
						scientist
						
						there is a strong ethical, hence ultimately arbitrary, dimension to the work of the engineer. For who is to 
						decide what is vital or necessary in human society? Is there really such a thing as a social consensus, 
						vague and impalpable perhaps, but which nevertheless results in a distinct dynamism in a particular 
						direction? Or is it a matter of unshakeable personal conviction?
						
						the engineer is forcing changes (“transforming the conditions of life”) that cannot be absolutely justified 
						in any way.
						
						the engineer has more in common with the lawyer than with the scientist: facts and opinions must be 
						marshalled in order to achieve a desired result; engineering is definitely not just “applied science”


					3) innovation, “the development of new products, services and processes" (both scientists and engineers)
						
						derived from ==> important problems that emerge from some kind of social consensus (e.g., the
						United Nations “Millennium Goals”.
						
						social responsibility was strong in theminds of the early Victorian engineers later became distorted ==> as 
						early as  1886, “beneficial undertakings had been proved profitable; [later] it was assumed that a business, 
						as long as it is profitable, does not require to be proved beneficial”.
						
						profitability has become the sole criterion of vital necessity
						


Presentations

Thoughts on Picon (Students)

I found these in Picon....................................
Facts
	two fundamental aspects of the history of engineers
		the history of social framework for engineers
		the history of the technical innovations

	extreme diversity of fields of engineering
		civil, mechanical, electrical, ...

	extreme diversity of responsibilities for engineers
		technical functions
		management


Questions Addressed
	What defines engineering history?
	Is the history of engineers primarily about the engineering profession and its evolution,or is it about the evolution of innovation and technical achievements?


Theses
	Engineering looks more like a continent marked by striking contrasts than like a unified field. On this continent, no self-evident link seems to exist between the organization of the profession and the various activities engineers are involved in.

	The lack of relations between these two fundamental aspects of the history of engneers is partly attributable to the extreme 	diversity of their jobs and realizations. Besides the distance that separates civil, mechanical or electrical engineering, engineers—since the second half of the 19th century at least—have occupied all kinds of positions between purely technical functions and management responsibilities.
...................................

Turn in HW

---break


Read Aloud 
	St Mary's College of Maryland 
	An Overview Of Thomas Kuhn's, "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions"




Thomas Kuhn, "The Structure Of Scientific Revolutions"
	III. The Nature of Normal Science
	
	Normal science consists in the actualization of that promise, an actualization achieved by extending the knowledge of those 
	facts that the paradigm displays as particularly revealing, by increasing the extent of the match between those facts and the 
	paradigm’s predictions, and by further articulation of the paradigm itself.
	
	Few people who are not actually practitioners of a mature science realize how much mop-up work of this sort a paradigm leaves to 
	be done or quite how fascinating such work can prove in the execution. And these points need to be understood. Mopping-up 
	operations are what engage most scientists throughout their careers.
	
	No part of the aim of normal science is to call forth new sorts of phenomena; indeed those that will not fit the box are often 	
	not seen at all. Nor do scientists normally aim to invent new theories, and they are often intolerant of those invented by 
	others.










Work time
