							LESSON PLAN  (50 min)

Docente:		Bruce D. Marron
Ciclo: 			25-2
Materia: 		Terminología Especializada en Documentos Jurídicos
Curso:			IT0733
Licenciatura: 	Interpretación y Traducción
Horario:		Martes 19:00 – 20:00, Miércoles 17:00 – 18:00, Jueves 15:00 – 16:00
Grupo:			7A

####
HW_02.1		Due: 28Jan2025
Read Grossfield's, "Language and the Law." Write a one-page summary of the paper in English and translate the summary into Spanish. Standard format requirements apply.

####


#########
Today
#########

---- Open 

The end of law is not to abolish or restrain, but to preserve and enlarge freedom. For in all the states of created beings capable of law, where there is no law, there is no freedom. 
		-- John Locke




---- Content 

Presentations 
	[first field of law]


On jargon

"SCIENTIFIC JARGON, GOOD AND BAD" by Russel Hirst
J. TECHNICAL WRITING AND COMMUNICATION, Vol. 33(3) 201-229, 2003

To be, or the contrary? Whether the former or the latter be preferable would
seem to admit of some difference of opinion; the answer in the present case
being of an affirmative or of a negative character according as to whether one
elects on the one hand to mentally suffer the disfavour of fortune, albeit in
an extreme degree, or on the other to boldly envisage adverse conditions in
the prospect of eventually bringing them to a conclusion 






[To be, or not to be, that is the question:
Whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles
And by opposing end them.]
	-- Hamlet

--------------

Objective consideration of contemporary phenomena compels the conclusion
that success or failure in competitive activities exhibits no tendency to be
commensurate with innate capacity, but that a considerable element of the
unpredictable must invariably be taken into account





Ecclesiastes 9:11
I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle
to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of under-
standing, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth
to them all.



Jargon (positive; "good jargon")
	* the specialized language of any trade, organization, profession, or science
	* specialized vocabularies
	* proper and effective use of scientific and technical terms

Jargon (negative; "bad jargon")
	* the pretentious, excluding, evasive, or othenvise unethical and offensive 
	use of specialized vocabulary
	* showy or shoddy use of language
	* technical terms and phrases invented (eg, by a Government departments) which are understood 
	by "insiders" but are unintelligible to outsiders ==> "bureacratese". Usually a mixture of 
	technical terms, words used in a special sense, plus acronyms
	
Scientific jargon
	* the many thousands of words and phrases often appropriated from Latin and Greek in 
	order to name (or re-name) the tools, machines, processes, substances, structures, 
	properties, causes, effects, laws, objects, animals, minerals, and vegetables that 
	scientists and engineers study and manipulate.


Jargon vs Style
	* Scientific jargon does not constitute a separate language, nor can "scientific language" in any 
	sense, broad or narrow, legitimately stand aloof from the rules of good style that govern other 
	kinds of discourse. 
	* Scientific and technical discourse in its various manifestations does have legitimate 
	distinguishing features, including accepted methods of arguing, organizing, illustrating, and 
	designing communications.
	

Jargon vs. "Fat"
	Due to the fact that the compressor ceased functioning prior to our finalization of the work 
	project, we informed the contracting party at that point in time that unless he agreed to convey a 
	functioning compressor to our job site free of additional charge or cost to us, we would render 
	null and void our contract with him




	Since the compressor broke down before we finished the job, we told the contractor to bring us 
	another one, at no extra cost, or we 'd cancel our contract with him.


Getting to Good Jargon
	* Aldous Huxley said that if a person really knows the subject, "s/he will be able to speak of it 
	in an easy language and with the completeness of conviction with which s/he talks of an ordinary 
	everyday matter. If s/he does not, s/he will be afraid to wander beyond the limits of the 
	technical phraseology which he has got up"
	
	1. It is economical (condenses complex ideas into few words).
	2. It is precise (uses Latinate vocabulary to name things not accurately named, nor not named at 
	all, in common speech).
	3. It is stable (not much influenced by vernacular, fickle cultural changes, language shifts).
	4. It is flexible (Greek and Latin are excellent sources for synthetic vocabulary).
	5. It is nearly universal (because of the dominance of Latin and Greek,  passages of jargon-filled 
	scientific prose are largely intelligible to fellownscientists around the world even if they are 
	not familiar with the primary language ofthe writer).
	6. It enhances cohesion among the sciences 
	7. It connects us with previous scientific thought (Greek and Latin scientists and subsequent 
	thinkers using Latin/Greek in their treatises).
	8. It is prose that conserves the reader's mental energy 
	
Jargon in Style
	* Use no more words than are necessary to express your meaning
	* do not use superfluous adjectives and adverbs and do not use roundabout phrases where single 
	words would serve
	* Use words with a precise meaning rather than those that are vague
	

In-Class Reading
DIEGO VALADÉS, "THE LANGUAGE OF LAW AND THE LAW OF THE LANGUAGE"
	p.19-24 	I. The Language of Law
					1. The Word Law
					2. The Words of Law		
	p.31-35			3. Legal Lexicons

What has been challenging for Mexican lawyers?

Civil Law (Mexico) vs Common Law (US)


---- Work Time